# face-mask-detector
1. Despite of the Covid norms, many people are still loitering around without wearing a face mask properly. It is an absolute necessity to track those people as they are the most potential super-spreaders of COVID-19.  2. To resolve this issue, we have come up with an innovative yet cost-effective module for "Mass Face Mask Detection". First, we create a trained model based on AI using Tensorflow, Keras &amp; Mobilenet in order to distinguish between a masked and a mask-less person. We train our built model more and more efficiently to successfully detect faces with precision. Then, using that model, we use a live-streaming camera and ffmpeg module, in order to run the module on a larger number of people in a certain area and to successfully detect the number of mask-less people &amp; track them accordingly. Our website will also upload that real-time data constantly into the server.   3. Other projects are based on the theme of " Face Mask Detection" have been primarily built on the basis of "1:1 detection". But our model will be able to detect the status of face mask from multiple people's image consisting in a single frame. It will be also able to track down the face mask status from a live-streaming camera like CCTV, thus ensuring that covid norms are properly followed in a larger locality. Also, our website will consistently upload the real time data and percentage of masked and without masked persons, so that anyone can check whether a particular place is safe to visit or not and can plan accordingly.   4. This project would not only benefit the masses as it will successfully detect the mask-less people in a large locality and thus significantly control the spread of the pandemic in that certain area, but also it would also help the administration to ease the hectic process of tracking each and every mask-less person manually. Thus, in terms of efficiency and cost-effectiveness, this project is surely going to help the majority chunk of masses in various ways.
